---
title: From Faster Horses to Automobiles
status: draft
---

# From Faster Horses to Automobiles

You know you have to talk to customers, or potential customers,
depending on what phase of product development you're in. So you go do
interviews, you look for what customers are saying online, you talk to
your customer support teams. Great you have a lot of feedback. What do
you do with it?

"You can’t just ask customers what they want and then try to give that
to them. By the time you get it built, they’ll want something new."

~Steve Jobs

"If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster
horses."

~Henry Ford

They're both right. The whims of the market move faster than product
development, and when you ask someone what they want, they don't
really know. Human psychology is a messy beast. People don't feel
problems until they can see a solution. Before the automobile, people
could see the solution of a faster horse, and therefore could feel the
problem of their slower ones. They could not feel the difficulty of
caring for their horse's health and wellbeing until they saw the
automobile and its comparative ease of maintinance. No one felt the
problem of choosing which CDs to carry along with the discman until
they saw the solution in the iPod. People in general only see clear
iterative improvements to their current circumstances. The kind of
improvements that they won't want by the time you can build them.This
fact does not mean that product developers and innovators should
ignore their customers and the market. It simply means that some
intrepretation of what people say they want is needed. An innovator
can learn to hear "faster horse" and infer "automobile".

## From Faster Horses to Automobiles
