---
title: From Faster Horses to Automobiles
status: draft
---

# From Faster Horses to Automobiles

You know you have to talk to customers, or potential customers,
depending on what phase of product development you're in. So you go do
interviews, you look for what customers are saying online, you talk to
your customer support teams. Great you have a lot of feedback. What do
you do with it?

"If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster
horses."

~Henry Ford

They're both right. The whims of the market move faster than product
development, and when you ask someone what they want, they don't
really know. Human psychology is a messy beast. People don't feel
problems until they can see a solution. Before the automobile, people
could see the solution of a faster horse, and therefore could feel the
problem of their slower ones. They could not feel the difficulty of
caring for their horse's health and wellbeing until they saw the
automobile and its comparative ease of maintinance. No one felt the
problem of choosing which CDs to carry along with the discman until
they saw the solution in the iPod. People in general only see clear
iterative improvements to their current circumstances. This fact does
not mean that product developers and innovators should ignore their
customers and the market. It simply means that some intrepretation of
what people say they want is needed. An innovator can learn to hear
"faster horse" and infer "automobile".

## Getting from Faster Horses to Automobiles

There are two elements that need to be combined to think "automobile"
when you hear "faster horse". The first is cutting edge technical
expertise. You have to know that a car is possible to build, and that
you can build it. The second is the problem that people are trying to
solve for themselves by asking for a faster horse. The problem is
rarely stated in feedback or in customer interviews, though the
interviewer can do work to tease the problem out. The best technique
for getting to that problem is to ask the following questions either as
the product team when analyzing feedback or to a customer as an
interviewer.

* What are you unable to do now that this solution would allow you to
  do?

* What troubles or cost do you have now that this solution would
  resolve?

A customer might say to you "I want a faster horse."

Then you could ask, "what would that get you? What could you do with a
faster horse that you can't do with your horse?"

They might say "I could make the trip to visit my grandmother in one
day rather than two. I wouldn't have to rent a room for the night on
the way there and on the way back."

Or they might say "I could make it to the market in time to get my
pick of the best produce."

So real solvable problems are now clear. One customer can't travel as
far as they'd like in a day. The other can't get places as early in
the day as they'd like. These insights along with 1860 cutting edge
technical expertise in mechanical engineering could lead to the
innovation of the automobile.

When I was managing an ad operations publisher dashboard product I'd
have requests for this or that column of data to be added to one
report or another. This was how we handeled feature requests until we
hired a data analysis expert who would ask "What do you need it for?"
Once we started getting those answers we were able to dramatically
improve the ad operations teams workflows by giving them the solutions
to their problems directly rather than the tools for them to figure
out a solution on their own.

"Can I get 'underdelivery rate' added to the daily line item
report?"

"What do you need it for? What are you unable to do now that this
would let you do?"

"I need to identify all underdelivering line items so I can make
adjustments in the ad server to ensure they'll deliver on time"

"Instead let's add an underdelivery section to your dashboard that
includes all the other information you need to make decisions about
adjustments"

"That sounds great!"

What are your customers and users saying that they want? What
underlying problem is their request or complaint attempting to solve?
What's the best solution to that problem your team can build?