---
title: Trust the Process
status: draft
---

# Trust the Process

Trust the process long enough to get the benefit of hindsight.

## An Example

**Start with peoples lives**

I starts with the only reasonable purpose of organizing people; to
improve their lives and, presuming that they value those the
organization serves, their users' or customers' lives too. In this
capatalist world, that pretty much means earning enough money to pay
employees a good wage, providing good benefits, and creating enough
value for customers to more than make up for the cost. Trust the value
of diversity. Levorage the fact that groups are more intelligent than
individuals especially when the conversation is shared evenly. Trust
the research you have available to you from outside, then do more of
your own.

**Do science**

Then buidling a strong foundation in research, trusting the process of
science as a way to learn enough to find solutions to that problem of
creating enough value for customers and the other problems that come
with exchanging that value with them. This is both primary user
research and primary technical research.

**Identify opportunities**

As this user and technical research proceeds, identify business
opportunities, form teams and execute them. Again, rely on established
processes for product management, engineering, and delivery. Pay
special attention to the stage of the market and the appropriate
process needed for the opportunity. Is it new territory that needs
agility in order to learn? Is it an improvement that can take an
existing product that's well understood in the market into the realm
of a utility (like cloud computing) that needs quality control and
stability?

**Repurpose byproducts**

Feed the things you learn from building products back into the primary
research. Extract and generalize tools, components, libraries,
designs, architectures, or antying valuable built or discovered during
product development to improve the effeciency of future product
development. Levorage the hindsight gained by trusting the process for
future work.

**Grow slowly**

A culture of science, of trusting the process, of valuing the lives of
everyone we affect, can be overwhelmed and diluted by rapid growth.